# Bachlors Final Project 
Michal Appel, Daria Hasin, Rola Farah, Tzipi Horowitz-Kraus, “**Greater utilization of executive functions networks when listening to stories with visual stimulation is related to lower reading abilities in children.**” Brain and Cognition, Volume 177, June 2024, Article 106161. DOI: [10.1016/j.bandc.2024.106161](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0278262624000381?via%3Dihub).

## Abstract
Reading relies on basic sensory processing abilities, such as visual and auditory processing, engaged during narrative comprehension, with recent evidence for the utilization of Executive functions (EF) in both processes. Therefore, the level of engagement of neural circuits associated with visual, auditory and EF during narrative comprehension in children are related to future reading abilities. The current study aims to fill out the gap related to the level of reliance on these neural circuits while visual aids (pictures) are involved during story listening in relation to reading skills. Functional MRI data were collected from 44 Hebrew-speaking children aged 8-12 years while listening to stories with vs without visual stimuli (i.e., pictures). Functional connectivity of networks supporting reading was defined in each condition and compared between the conditions against behavioral reading measures. Children with lower reading skills showed greater functional connectivity between EF networks (default mode network and memory network), and between the auditory and memory networks for the stories with vs without the visual stimulation. A greater difference in functional connectivity between the conditions was observed for children with lower reading scores. We conclude that children with reading difficulties may need greater scaffolding, i.e., visual stimulation such as pictures describing the narratives when listening to stories, which may guide future intervention approaches.
